So there was some downtime on ATA this afternoon and some things I couldn't move forward without some system access that I'm still waiting on post PIV certificate reissue, so I took the opportunity to draft those bullet points for my Self RefleXion Xpoint P2 or however it is called. I dunno if you can view them in ultipro until I submit so I'll paste here for now. Lots of words, really hard for me to get around that, if I'd had more time I would have written you a shorter letter haha! But seriously maybe we can workshop how I can get across the value I think these speak to without so much "and also, but also this, and you should really know this" language:
Becoming Excella's Key Data Scientist On The Finch Effort While Still Providing Leadership and Significant Contribution On ATA

1. Competencies
2. On the Finch Effort Itself:

- Flexibility and Initiative:
  - F: I wasn't planned as the Primary Data Scientist for Excella, I ended up joining in February an effort that had been underway since October and then ultimately assuming the role due to circumstantial changes.
  - F: It was also decided a few days before the presentation in front of the government evaluators that key personnel would participate in the orals component and I compiled a presentation that covered several points not addressed by the presentations prepared by personnel from the organization taking prime, bolstering our chances further of meeting all evaluation criteria.
  - F: during the 10 day code challenge, even as I focused on one component of our submission I also aimed to learn as much as possible about other components of the solution, and I was an unspoken advocate for meeting RFP requirements around test coverage as well as addressing feedback we'd had on prior tech challenges such as git commit messages. I also provided the template for what we adopted as our git branching strategy and prepared a presentation on git for less technical members of the team. During the 10 day tech challenge, I volunteered to be the first non-devOps team member to shadow our devOps specialist and use kubectl for running the data pipeline we built as a cron job, and I shared my command history with the rest of the team, saving them the trouble of independently learning the commands to perform this task when we were testing and demonstrating our submission to the government.
- I: I volunteered to implement what I feel was the most complex portion of the technical prompt for our 10 day challenge, leveraging my in depth knowledge of an analogous problem I'd been key on when we faced it on an actual USCIS engagement. I implemented the entirety of this feature minus some repurposed example machine learning code from the third party library we leveraged. I also fought hard and advocated to incorporate a feature which had been de-scoped by team appointed technical leadership but which the prompt clearly stated was a 'must have' for submission, and then led the charge to implement this feature as well.
- I: I built a strong rapport with the only other data scientist on the challenge, the key personnel that took data science lead role on the team. We bonded over both being developers that converted to data science capability and we had a partnership where we were an effective duo and they comfortably leaned on my general data science expertise as well as my background delivering AI/ML enabled solutions to USCIS throughout the 10 day coding challenge and day of change request in front of government officiants.
- F&I: On the day of the change request it turned out I had prior positive working relationships with several of the government evaluators. In fact, I had some of my most involved interactions with these evaluators doing some of the work that related in many ways to the tech challenge that they had designed. I made several ad-libbed additions to my orals presentation and incorporated my understanding of our mutual understanding into my answers of their technical questions. In doing so, I believe I was able to maximize the exposure of Excella's institutional knowledge and remind them of our past successes in helping them find effective solutions.
- I: I drove the data science approach for the day of change request performed live in front of government evaluators. I proposed the solution we ultimately went with, I spoke to the nuances involved with the data analysis and feature engineering we would need to do as well as why we selected the model we did for training and inference as well as providing a few alternatives we could have selected and what about the problem made our approach advantageous. The majority of what the evaluators had to review regarding our team's experience and capability with AI/ML on this AI/ML centric contract bid came directly from my words and actions.
- I: When Mary Scott, who had been providing important insights and code contribution, was circumstantially unable to contribute further to the 10 day coding challenge, I helped acclimate her backfill Henry Jia as he valiantly joined mid stream to the effort, briefing him on the situation on the ground and helping him find the best ways to use his considerable data science expertise to help us build the best possible solution. I also worked to understand the contributions of Chris Wooley, another late addition to the challenge that had been building out part of our submission with Mary Scott and who then became the key dependency for that compoent for the change request. He could not participate in the change request due to the 10 person limit, so I made sure I was effective enough at performing alterations to the portion of our submission he and Mary Scott had primarily implemented.
- I: at one point during the presentation during the change request there was an impromptu question from one of the evaluators interrupting our Data Science Lead during their presentation and asking a question to imply our solution would improperly handle a very important use case. The answer provided by our Data Science Lead to this question was slightly reactive and left it ambiguous as to whether our solution would be able to handle this use case correctly, even going so far as to suggest that the evaluator was right in suspecting that it would not. I saw that this could undermine evaluator's confidence in our approach and general domain understanding and so I waited for an opening at the end of the presentation and then interjected and called back to this response and clarified how our solution would handle this use case properly with a high probability of success, explaining exactly why and providing a concrete example. I was thanked by the evaluator for my clarifications, they indicated that my response had alleviated their concern.
  ATA Bullets:
- F: Finch efforts began in October and absorbed capacity from ATA data science. I worked with Mary Scott, our ATA tech lead/data architect and Finch primary at the time to ensure that we would continue to have steady delivery on ATA and the two of us could effectively manage her vision for the ATA roadmap and the workload from the parallel efforts.
- F: There was a month of time between February and March where my role in Finch began to evolve, first as an alternate who would likely become primary, then to primary that may fall back to alternate, then to definite primary. Throughout this whole period I effectively balanced my workload to have impact where needed on both efforts proportionate to my role in each. Some highlights of this period on the ATA account were as follows:
- my role in onboarding new team members Melisa Bardhi, Andrew Griffith, and then just after Finch also providing auxiliary onboarding support to Sean Flaherty and Dick Donaldson.
- I noticed we had a GPL licensed function in our codebase which, if it remained, could mean we were eventually legally required to open source the entire project, so I found a workaround that allowed us to remove this function.
- I carried out a major refactor of our data science code repository to fix technical debt that had long plagued ATA and introduce better software engineering principles such as centralized, immutable configuration and dependency injection of domain logic, leading to a more modular architecture. I had been mentor pairing with another ATA team member on this effort but they left Excella for another opportunity and I brought it to successful conclusion the sprint following their departure.
- I designed and implemented the ingestion portion for our highest priority roadmap effort, and brought Andrew Griffith onto the effort as his first major contribution to ATA. We then pivoted to an MVP which allowed this work to be suspended during FINCH, however the work that Andrew and I completed during this time ended up being leveraged several times as the only way to view and work with realistic production data for this MVP effort. I also provided key contributions to the MVP tasks alongside my Finch responsibilities.
